# Ensemble-Deep-Learning-for-Parkinson-s-Disease-A-Comparative-Study-of-CNN-models-
An Ensemble model for identifying a person suffering from the Parkinson's Disease or the person is free from the Disease
<p align="justify">
<strong>Abstract</strong>—Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition that impacts millions globally. Recent Studies state that by the end of 2050, the number of individuals who are suffering from this disease could reach 25.2 million, which is a 112% increase from 2021. Early diagnosis is essential for improving treatment outcomes and enabling timely medical interventions. PD is primarily recognized by motoric symptoms, including tremors, muscles stiffness, and slow movements (bradykinesia). This study explores an ensemble deep learning approach that integrates AlexNet8, Resnet50, and EfficientNet-B0 for enhanced classification of Parkinson’s disease using Dat Scan Images. Each model extracts distinct features from the medical scans, capturing various patterns of dopamine activity. The ensemble model aggregates the strengths of individual networks by combining the feature maps of the individual models and aggregating it into a single feature map that represents the Ensemble model. A comprehensive comparative analysis of individual models and the ensemble model is conducted based on key performance indicators. The results demonstrated that the Ensemble approach outperforms standalone CNN models with an accuracy of 97%, providing higher reliability in PD detection. Additionally, visualization techniques such as confusion matrices and performance graphs offer deeper insights into model effectiveness.
</p>
